added section to relay docs (#6068)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/relay/pii-and-data-scrubbing.mdx

---
title: PII and Data Scrubbing
description: "Syntax and semantics of the configuration for advanced data scrubbing, as consumed and executed by Relay."
sidebar_order: 7
redirect_from:
  - /meta/relay/pii-and-data-scrubbing/
---

The following document explores the syntax and semantics of the configuration for [Advanced Data Scrubbing], as consumed and executed by [Relay]. Sometimes, this is also referred to as PII scrubbing.
  
## A Basic Example
  
If you have an exception message which contains IP addresses that are not supposed to be there, you'd write:

```json
{
  "applications": {
    "$string": ["@ip:replace"]
  }
}
```

It reads as "replace all IP addresses in all strings", or "apply `@ip:replace`to all `$string` fields".

> `@ip:replace` is called a rule, and `$string` is a <Link
> to="/pii/selectors/">selector</Link>.

Author: ```suggestion
`@ip:replace` is called a rule, and `$string` is a selector.
```

## Built-in Rules

The following rules exist by default:

> - `@ip:replace` and `@ip:hash` for replacing IP addresses.
> - `@imei:replace` and `@imei:hash` for replacing IMEIs
> - `@mac:replace`, `@mac:mask` and `@mac:hash` for matching MAC addresses
> - `@email:mask`, `@email:replace` and `@email:hash` for matching email addresses
> - `@creditcard:mask`, `@creditcard:replace` and `@creditcard:hash` for matching credit card numbers
> - `@userpath:replace` and `@userpath:hash` for matching local paths (e.g.`C:/Users/foo/`)
> - `@password:remove` for removing passwords. In this case we're pattern matching against the field's key, whether it contains `password`, `credentials` or similar strings.
> - `@anything:remove`, `@anything:replace` and `@anything:hash` for removing, replacing or hashing any value. It is essentially equivalent to a wildcard-regex, but it will also match much more than strings.

Author: ```suggestion
- `@ip:replace` and `@ip:hash` for replacing IP addresses.
- `@imei:replace` and `@imei:hash` for replacing IMEIs.
- `@mac:replace`, `@mac:mask` and `@mac:hash` for matching MAC addresses.
- `@email:mask`, `@email:replace` and `@email:hash` for matching email addresses.
- `@creditcard:mask`, `@creditcard:replace` and `@creditcard:hash` for matching credit card numbers.
- `@userpath:replace` and `@userpath:hash` for matching local paths (e.g.`C:/Users/foo/`).
- `@password:remove` for removing passwords. In this case, we're pattern matching against the field's key, whether it contains `password`, `credentials`, or similar strings.
- `@anything:remove`, `@anything:replace` and `@anything:hash` for removing, replacing, or hashing any value. It's essentially equivalent to a wildcard-regex, but will also match more than strings.
```

  
## Writing Your Own Rules
  
Rules generally consist of two parts:

> - _Rule types_ describe what to match. See <Link to="/pii/types/">PII Rule Types</Link> for an exhaustive list.
> - _Rule redaction methods_ describe what to do with the match. See <Link to="/pii/methods/">PII Redaction Methods</Link> for a list.

Author: ```suggestion
- _Rule types_ describe what to match. See <a class href="https://develop.sentry.dev/pii/types/">PII Rule Types</a> for an exhaustive list.
- _Rule redaction methods_ describe what to do with the match. See <a class href="https://develop.sentry.dev/pii/methods/">PII Redaction Methods</a> for a list.
```
